The President:
On Monday, we
celebrate Labor Day.
It's a chance to get together
with families and friends,
to throw some food on the
grill, and have a good time.
But it's also a day to
honor the American worker --
to reaffirm our commitment to
the great American middle class
that has, for generations, made
our economy the envy of the world.
That's especially important now.
I don't have to tell you that
this is a very tough time for
our country.
Millions of our neighbors have
been swept up in the worst
recession in our lifetimes.
And long before
this recession hit,
the middle class had been
taking some hard shots.
Long before this recession,
the values of hard work and
responsibility that built this
country had been given short shrift.
For a decade, middle class
families felt the sting of
stagnant incomes and
declining economic security.
Companies were rewarded with
tax breaks for creating jobs overseas.
Wall Street firms turned
huge profits by taking,
in some cases, reckless
risks and cutting corners.
All of this came at the
expense of working Americans,
who were fighting harder and
harder just to stay afloat --
often borrowing against inflated
home values to pay their bills.
Ultimately, that house
of cards collapsed.
So this Labor Day, we should
recommit ourselves to our
time-honored values and to this
fundamental truth: to heal our
economy, we need more than
a healthy stock market;
we need bustling main
streets and a growing,
thriving middle class.
That's why I'll keep working day-by-day to restore
opportunity, economic security,
and that basic American Dream
for our families and
future generations.
First, that means doing
everything we can to accelerate
job creation.
The steps we've taken to date
have stopped the bleeding:
investments in roads and bridges
and high-speed railroads that
will lead to hundreds of
thousands of jobs in the private
sector; emergency steps to
prevent the layoffs of hundreds
of thousands of teachers
and firefighters and police
officers; and tax cuts and loans
for small business owners who
create most of the
jobs in this country.
We also ended a tax loophole
that encouraged companies to
create jobs overseas.
Instead, I'm fighting to pass a
law to provide tax breaks to the
folks who create jobs
right here in America.
But strengthening our economy
means more than that.
We're fighting to build an
economy in which middle class
families can afford to send
their kids to college,
buy a home, save for retirement,
and achieve some measure of
economic security when their
working days are done.
And over the last two years,
that has meant taking on some
powerful interests who had
been dominating the agenda in
Washington for far too long.
That's why we've put an end to
the wasteful subsidies to big
banks that provide
student loans.
We're going to use that money instead to make college more
affordable for students.
That's why we're making it
easier for workers to save for
retirement, with new ways of
saving their tax refunds and a
simpler system for enrolling in retirement plans like 401(k)s.
And we're going to keep up the
fight to protect Social Security
for generations to come.
That's why we stopped insurance
companies from refusing to cover
people with pre-existing
conditions and dropping folks
who become seriously ill.
And that's why we cut taxes
for 95% of working families,
and passed a law to help make
sure women earn equal pay for
equal work in the United
States of America.
This Labor Day, we are reminded
that we didn't become the most
prosperous country in the
world by rewarding greed and recklessness.
We did it by rewarding hard
work and responsibility.
We did it by recognizing that we
rise or we fall together as one
nation -- one people -- all of us vested in one another.
That's how we've
succeeded in the past.
And that is how we will not
only rebuild this economy,
but rebuild it stronger
than ever before.
Thank you.
And I hope you have a
great Labor Day weekend.